readme.md, before:

# ngx-build-plus

Extend the Angular CLI's default build behavior without ejecting:

- 📦 Build a single bundle (e. g. for Angular Elements)
- 📄 Extend the default behavior by providing a **partial** config that just contains your additional settings
- ☑️ Inherits from the default builder, hence you have the same options
- 🍰 Simple to use 
- ⏏️ No eject needed

## Useful not only for Angular Elements

The original use case for this was to create a bundles for Angular Elements by extending the CLI's default builder. Besides this,``ngx-build-plus`` is also usable when you want to enhance other build setups with a partial webpack config.

It allows you to provide a single bundle that can be distributed easily.

Using an partial webpack config, you could e. g. define packages as externals. They can be loaded separately into the shell (hosting application). This allows several individually loaded Custom Elements sharing common packages like ``@angular/core`` etc.

## Credits

Big thanks to [Rob Wormald](https://twitter.com/robwormald) and [David Herges](https://twitter.com/davidh_23)!

## Example

https://github.com/manfredsteyer/ngx-build-plus

## Usage

The next steps guides you trough getting started with ``ngx-build-plus`` by an example that uses Angular Elements. The result of this description can be found in the [repository's](https://github.com/manfredsteyer/ngx-build-plus) ``sample`` directory.

1. Create a new Angular CLI based project and install ``@angular/elements`` as well as ``@webcomponents/custom-elements`` which provides needed polyfills:

    ```
    ng add @angular/elements 
    npm install @webcomponents/custom-elements --save
    ```

2. Expose a component as an Custom Element:

    ```TypeScript
    import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
    import { NgModule, Injector } from '@angular/core';
    import { createCustomElement } from '@angular/elements';

    import { AppComponent } from './app.component';

    @NgModule({
        imports: [
            BrowserModule
        ],
        declarations: [
            AppComponent
        ],
        providers: [],
        bootstrap: [],
        entryComponents:[AppComponent]
    })
    export class AppModule { 

        constructor(private injector: Injector) {
        }

        ngDoBootstrap() {
            const elm = createCustomElement(AppComponent, { injector: this.injector });
            customElements.define('custom-element', elm);
        }

    }
    ```
1. Install ``ngx-build-plus``:

    ```
    npm install ngx-build-plus --save-dev
    ```

3. Open your ``angular.json`` and tell the CLI to use ``ngx-builder-plus`` instead of the default one:

    ```
      [...]
      "architect": {
        "build": {
          "builder": "ngx-build-plus:build",
          [...]
        }
      }
      [...]
    ```

1. Create a file ``webpack.extra.js`` with a partial webpack config that tells webpack to exclude packages like ``@angular/core``:

    ```JavaScript
    module.exports = {
        "externals": {
            "rxjs": "rxjs",
            "@angular/core": "ng.core",
            "@angular/common": "ng.common",
            "@angular/platform-browser": "ng.platformBrowser",
            "@angular/elements": "ng.elements"
        }
    }
    ```

4. Build your application:

    ```
    ng build --prod --extraWebpackConfig webpack.extra.js --output-hashing none
    ```

1. You will see that just one bundle (besides the ``script.js`` that could also be shared) is built. The size of the ``main.js`` tells you, that the mentioned packages have been excluded.

    ![Result](result.png)

    **Hint:** If you don't want to get just one bundle you can set the new flag ``single-bundle`` to ``false`` (``ng build ... --single-bundle false``)

1. Copy the bundle into a project that references the UMD versions of all external libraries and your ``main.ts``. You can find such a project with all the necessary script files in the ``deploy`` folder of the sample.

    ```html
    <html>
    <body>
        <!-- Polyfills for Browsers supporting 
            Custom Elements. Needed b/c we downlevel
            to ES5. See: @webcomponents/custom-elements
        -->
        <script src="./native-shim.js"></script>

        <!-- Polyfills for Browsers not supporting
            Custom Elements. See: @webcomponents/custom-elements
        -->
        <script src="./custom-elements.min.js"></script>
        
        <!-- Zone.js -->
        <!-- 
        Consider excluding zone.js when creating
        Custom Elements by using the noop zone.
        -->
        <script src="./zone.js"></script>
        
        <!-- Rx -->
        <script src="./rxjs.umd.js"></script>

        <!-- Angular Packages -->
        <script src="./core.umd.js"></script>
        <script src="./common.umd.js"></script>
        <script src="./platform-browser.umd.js"></script>
        <script src="./elements.umd.js"></script>

        <!-- Custom Element -->
        <script src="./custom-element.bundle.js"></script>

        <!-- Calling Custom Element -->
        <custom-element></custom-element>

        <!-- 
        Here we could call additional custom elements
        reusing the loaded packages above.
        -->

    </body>
    </html>
    ```

7. Test your solution.

**Hint:** For production, consider using the minified versions of those bundles. They can be found in the ``node_modules`` folder after npm installing them.

Commit message:

readme: add info about future builder versions

readme.md, after:

# ngx-build-plus

Extend the Angular CLI's default build behavior without ejecting:

- 📦 Build a single bundle (e. g. for Angular Elements)
- 📄 Extend the default behavior by providing a **partial** config that just contains your additional settings
- ☑️ Inherits from the default builder, hence you have the same options
- 🍰 Simple to use 
- ⏏️ No eject needed

## Useful not only for Angular Elements

The original use case for this was to create a bundle for Angular Elements by extending the CLI's default builder. Besides this,``ngx-build-plus`` is also usable when you want to enhance other build setups with a partial webpack config.

It allows you to provide a single bundle that can be distributed easily.

Using an partial webpack config, you could e. g. define packages as externals. They can be loaded separately into the shell (hosting application). This allows several individually loaded Custom Elements sharing common packages like ``@angular/core`` etc.

## Credits

Big thanks to [Rob Wormald](https://twitter.com/robwormald) and [David Herges](https://twitter.com/davidh_23)!

## Tested with CLI 6.0.0

This package has been created and tested with Angular CLI 6.0.0. If the CLI's underlying API changes in future, I'll provide an respective update for this version too until the CLI has build-in features for the covered use cases.

## Example

https://github.com/manfredsteyer/ngx-build-plus

## Usage

The next steps guides you trough getting started with ``ngx-build-plus`` by an example that uses Angular Elements. The result of this description can be found in the [repository's](https://github.com/manfredsteyer/ngx-build-plus) ``sample`` directory.

1. Create a new Angular CLI based project and install ``@angular/elements`` as well as ``@webcomponents/custom-elements`` which provides needed polyfills:

    ```
    ng add @angular/elements 
    npm install @webcomponents/custom-elements --save
    ```

2. Expose a component as an Custom Element:

    ```TypeScript
    import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
    import { NgModule, Injector } from '@angular/core';
    import { createCustomElement } from '@angular/elements';

    import { AppComponent } from './app.component';

    @NgModule({
        imports: [
            BrowserModule
        ],
        declarations: [
            AppComponent
        ],
        providers: [],
        bootstrap: [],
        entryComponents:[AppComponent]
    })
    export class AppModule { 

        constructor(private injector: Injector) {
        }

        ngDoBootstrap() {
            const elm = createCustomElement(AppComponent, { injector: this.injector });
            customElements.define('custom-element', elm);
        }

    }
    ```
1. Install ``ngx-build-plus``:

    ```
    npm install ngx-build-plus --save-dev
    ```

3. Open your ``angular.json`` and tell the CLI to use ``ngx-builder-plus`` instead of the default one:

    ```
      [...]
      "architect": {
        "build": {
          "builder": "ngx-build-plus:build",
          [...]
        }
      }
      [...]
    ```

1. Create a file ``webpack.extra.js`` with a partial webpack config that tells webpack to exclude packages like ``@angular/core``:

    ```JavaScript
    module.exports = {
        "externals": {
            "rxjs": "rxjs",
            "@angular/core": "ng.core",
            "@angular/common": "ng.common",
            "@angular/platform-browser": "ng.platformBrowser",
            "@angular/elements": "ng.elements"
        }
    }
    ```

4. Build your application:

    ```
    ng build --prod --extraWebpackConfig webpack.extra.js --output-hashing none
    ```

1. You will see that just one bundle (besides the ``script.js`` that could also be shared) is built. The size of the ``main.js`` tells you, that the mentioned packages have been excluded.

    ![Result](result.png)

    **Hint:** If you don't want to get just one bundle you can set the new flag ``single-bundle`` to ``false`` (``ng build ... --single-bundle false``)

1. Copy the bundle into a project that references the UMD versions of all external libraries and your ``main.ts``. You can find such a project with all the necessary script files in the ``deploy`` folder of the sample.

    ```html
    <html>
    <body>
        <!-- Polyfills for Browsers supporting 
            Custom Elements. Needed b/c we downlevel
            to ES5. See: @webcomponents/custom-elements
        -->
        <script src="./native-shim.js"></script>

        <!-- Polyfills for Browsers not supporting
            Custom Elements. See: @webcomponents/custom-elements
        -->
        <script src="./custom-elements.min.js"></script>
        
        <!-- Zone.js -->
        <!-- 
        Consider excluding zone.js when creating
        Custom Elements by using the noop zone.
        -->
        <script src="./zone.js"></script>
        
        <!-- Rx -->
        <script src="./rxjs.umd.js"></script>

        <!-- Angular Packages -->
        <script src="./core.umd.js"></script>
        <script src="./common.umd.js"></script>
        <script src="./platform-browser.umd.js"></script>
        <script src="./elements.umd.js"></script>

        <!-- Custom Element -->
        <script src="./custom-element.bundle.js"></script>

        <!-- Calling Custom Element -->
        <custom-element></custom-element>

        <!-- 
        Here we could call additional custom elements
        reusing the loaded packages above.
        -->

    </body>
    </html>
    ```

7. Test your solution.

**Hint:** For production, consider using the minified versions of those bundles. They can be found in the ``node_modules`` folder after npm installing them.
